My Wonderful Family
I live in a house near the mountains. I have two brothers and one sister, and I was born last. My father teaches mathematics, and my mother is a nurse at a big hospital.
My brothers are very smart and work hard in school. My sister is a nervous girl, but she is very kind. My grandmother also lives with us. She came from Italy when I was two years old. She has grown old, but she is still very strong. She cooks the best food!
My family is very important to me. We do lots of things together. My brothers and I like to go on long walks in the mountains. My sister likes to cook with my grandmother. On the weekends we all play board games together.
We laugh and always have a good time. I love my family very much. First, I wake up. Then, I get dressed. I walk to school. I do not ride a bike. I do not ride the bus. I like to go to school. It rains. I do not like rain. I eat lunch. I eat a sandwich and an apple.
I play outside. I like to play. I read a book. I like to read books. I walk home. I do not like walking home. My mother cooks soup for dinner. The soup is hot. Then, I go to bed. I do not like to go to bed.
Hi! Nice to meet you! My name is John Smith. I am 19 and a student in college. I go to college in New York. My favorite courses are Geometry, French, and History. English is my hardest course. My professors are very friendly and smart. It’s my second year in college now. I love it!
I live in a big house on Ivy Street. It’s near the college campus. I share the house with three other students. Their names are Bill, Tony, and Paul. We help each other with homework. On the weekend, we play football together.
I have a younger brother. He just started high school. He is 14 and lives with my parents. They live on Mulberry Street in Boston. Sometimes they visit me in New York. I am happy when they visit. My Mom always brings me sweets and candy when they come. I really miss them, too!
Our Vacation Every year we go to Florida. We like to go to the beach. My favorite beach is called Emerson Beach. It is very long, with soft sand and palm trees. It is very beautiful. I like to make sandcastles and watch the sailboats go by. Sometimes there are dolphins and whales in the water!
Every morning we look for shells in the sand. I found fifteen big shells last year. I put them in a special place in my room. This year I want to learn to surf. It is hard to surf, but so much fun! My sister is a good surfer. She says that she can teach me. I hope I can do it!
Jack was hungry. He walked to the kitchen. He got out some eggs. He took out some oil. He placed a skillet on the stove. Next, he turned on the heat. He poured the oil into the skillet. He cracked the eggs into a bowl. He stirred the eggs. Then, he poured them into the hot skillet. He waited while the eggs cooked. They cooked for two minutes. He heard them cooking. They popped in the oil.
Next, Jack put the eggs on a plate. He placed the plate on the dining room table. Jack loved looking at his eggs. They looked pretty on the white plate. He sat down in the large wooden chair. He thought about the day ahead. He ate the eggs with a spoon. They were good.
He washed the plate with dishwashing soap. Then, he washed the pan. He got a sponge damp. Finally, he wiped down the table. Next, Jack watched TV.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith have one son and one daughter. The son's name is John. The daughter's name is Sarah.
The Smiths live in a house. They have a living room. They watch TV in the living room. The father cooks food in the kitchen. They eat in the dining room. The house has two bedrooms. They sleep in the bedrooms. They keep their clothes in the closet. There is one bathroom. They brush their teeth in the bathroom.
The house has a garden. John and Sarah play in the garden. They have a dog. John and Sarah like to play with the dog.I just returned from the greatest summer vacation! It was so fantastic, I never wanted it to end. I spent eight days in Paris, France. My best friends, Henry and Steve, went with me. We had a beautiful hotel room in the Latin Quarter, and it wasn’t even expensive. We had a balcony with a wonderful view.
We visited many famous tourist places. My favorite was the Louvre, a well-known museum. I was always interested in art, so that was a special treat for me. The museum is so huge, you could spend weeks there. Henry got tired walking around the museum and said “Enough! I need to take a break and rest.”
We took lots of breaks and sat in cafes along the river Seine. The French food we ate was delicious. The wines were tasty, too. Steve’s favorite part of the vacation was the hotel breakfast. He said he would be happy if he could eat croissants like those forever. We had so much fun that we’re already talking about our next vacation!
I just returned from the greatest summer vacation! It was so fantastic, I never wanted it to end. I spent eight days in Paris, France. My best friends, Henry and Steve, went with me. We had a beautiful hotel room in the Latin Quarter, and it wasn’t even expensive. We had a balcony with a wonderful view.
We visited many famous tourist places. My favorite was the Louvre, a well-known museum. I was always interested in art, so that was a special treat for me. The museum is so huge, you could spend weeks there. Henry got tired walking around the museum and said “Enough! I need to take a break and rest.”
We took lots of breaks and sat in cafes along the river Seine. The French food we ate was delicious. The wines were tasty, too. Steve’s favorite part of the vacation was the hotel breakfast. He said he would be happy if he could eat croissants like those forever. We had so much fun that we’re already talking about our next vacation!
Lucas goes to school every day of the week. He has many subjects to go to each school day: English, art, science, mathematics, gym, and history. His mother packs a big backpack full of books and lunch for Lucas.
His first class is English, and he likes that teacher very much. His English teacher says that he is a good pupil, which Lucas knows means that she thinks he is a good student.
His next class is art. He draws on paper with crayons and pencils and sometimes uses a ruler. Lucas likes art. It is his favorite class.
His third class is science. This class is very hard for Lucas to figure out, but he gets to work with his classmates a lot, which he likes to do. His friend, Kyle, works with Lucas in science class, and they have fun.
Then Lucas gets his break for lunch. He sits with Kyle while he eats. The principal, or the headmaster as some call him, likes to walk around and talk to students during lunch to check that they are all behaving.
The next class is mathematics, which most of the students just call math. Kyle has trouble getting a good grade in mathematics, but the teacher is very nice and helpful.
His fourth class is gym. It is just exercising. History is his last class of the day. Lucas has a hard time staying awake. Many lessons are boring, and he is very tired after doing gym
There are seven days of the week, or uniquely named 24-hour periods designed to provide scheduling context and make time more easily measureable. Each of these days is identifiable by specific plans, moods, and tones.
Monday is viewed by many to be the "worst" day of the week, as it marks the return to work following the weekend, when most full-time employees are given two days off. Most students attend school in the morning and return home in the afternoon (usually from about eight until three or seven until two), and most workers go to work in the morning and return home in the evening (usually from nine to five or eight to four).
Tuesday is the second day of the week, and is in many ways similar to Monday. Not a whole lot of changes, schedule-wise, between Tuesday and Monday; most individuals go to school or work and return home to watch television, play video games, make plans with friends, spend time with family, read, or engage in a similar leisure-related activity.
Wednesday is the third day of the week, and serves as the "middle" of the work week; some individuals refer to Wednesday as "hump day," as once its workday is complete, employees will have passed the work-week "hump," and will be on the downturn, as only two days on the job will remain in the week.
Thursday is the fourth day of the week, and is viewed favorably by many, as it's rather close to the end of the work week.
Friday is the fifth day of the week, and marks the end of the workweek and school-week for the vast majority of employees and students. By Friday afternoon/evening, most students/workers cannot wait to leave and go home, as they won't have to report back to school/work until Monday.
Saturday is perhaps the most highly regarded day of the week. Because Sunday follows it (and there is presumably no work or school to attend, for most individuals), everyone is free to stay out (or awake) until late at night, having fun with plans or other leisure-related activities. To be sure, Saturday is generally thought of as a day to partake in hobbies that couldn't otherwise be enjoyed during the regular week.
Sunday is the final day of the week, and is used by most as a day of rest. Fewer late-night plans are made on Sundays, compared to Saturdays, as most individuals have to wake up for work or school on Monday morning.
Doctor Klein: Good morning, Cecilia, how are you feeling today?
Cecilia: I do not feel very well, Doctor Klein. I hope that you can treat my illness.
Doctor Klein: I’m sorry that you feel very sick. Tell me some of your symptoms so that I can give you a proper diagnosis.
Cecilia: I have not felt well since yesterday afternoon. The symptoms began with a headache and a gradual sore throat. I drank tea with lemon and honey, and I went to bed early. However, I am extremely exhausted, and I don’t feel any better today.
Doctor Klein: I have seen these symptoms recently in some of my other patients. I’ll check your temperature and examine your throat in order to give you a proper diagnosis.
Cecilia: Thank you, Doctor.
Doctor Klein: Open up and say “Ahhhhhh...”
Cecilia: “Ahhhhhh...”
Doctor Klein: Oh, my! I can already see that your throat is very red. Your temperature of 100 degrees indicates that you are running a mild fever. I am afraid that you might have the flu.
Cecilia: What is the best way to cure my symptoms?
Doctor Klein: You will need plenty of rest, and you should drink fluids frequently in order to stay hydrated. You’ve also just started to show symptoms, so I can prescribe you a medication that can reduce fever and shorten the duration of your illness.
Cecilia: Should I stay home from work as well?
Doctor Klein: Yes, you should remain in bed until the fever breaks. You should also wait until 24 hours after the fever has broken before you return to work. You do not want to risk getting your coworkers sick as well.
Cecilia: I suppose I will just take it easy and relax for a couple of days. Thank you, doctor, for all of your help!
Doctor Klein: No problem! Try your best to rest for a couple of days. I hope you feel better soon!
Sandra and Paul are at a steak restaurant. A waiter greets them.
"Do you know what you would like to drink?" the waiter asks.
“Water and orange juice,” Sandra says.
"Thank you. Here are your menus," the waiter says.
The waiter brings water for Paul and orange juice for Sandra.
"What would you like to order?" the waiter asks.
"I would like a 12-ounce steak and mashed potatoes," Paul says.
"The same thing, but with green beans," Sandra says.
"And two orders of garlic bread," Paul says.
"Great. You should have it in soon," the waiter says.
The waiter returns after an hour.
“Sorry for your wait. Here are two orders of 12-ounce steaks with mashed potatoes and garlic bread,” the waiter says.
"I asked for green beans with mine," Sandra says.
"I'm sorry, I’ll get those for you," the waiter says.
The waiter quickly returns with Sandra's green beans.
Martha is at the grocery store, getting ready for a house party. She has a list of what she needs with her as she goes along. The first section she comes has produce. Martha sees apples, bananas, cherries, grapes, and strawberries. She checks her list:
- 6 apples
- 1 bag of cherries
- 1 bag of grapes
- 2 cartons of strawberries
Martha gets her items and looks the bananas. They are on sale for much cheaper than they are normally. She picks 3 bananas. Next are vegetables. She sees potatoes, carrots, tomatoes, onions, mushrooms, and salad in bags. She checks her list:
- 5 pounds of potatoes
- 6 carrots
- 4 tomatoes
- 2 onions
- 4 mushrooms
As she is putting her items into her cart, Martha checks the many bags of salad and chooses 2 of them. She pushes her cart ahead. The next section is meat and dairy. She sees meat, fish, cheese, eggs, and milk. She checks her list:
- 2 fish (salmon)
- 1 block of cheese (cheddar)
- 1 dozen eggs
- 2 gallons of milk
She looks at the meat that is on sale and chooses a 5-pound roll of hamburger. She gets the rest of the items in that section. She still needs rice, bread, salt, sugar, and flour. She gets:
- 2 bags of rice
- 4 loaves of bread
- a 2-pound bag of sugar
- a 2-pound bag of flour
Martha then realizes that she has forgotten something. She runs back and gets 1 container of salt and then rushes to the checkout. She puts her groceries into her car and leaves.
Hi, Fred!
It's been a while since we have been in touch. How has your semester been?
I wanted to send an email update to you let you know how things have been going during my semester abroad here in Málaga, Spain. I've already been here for six weeks, and I feel like I am finally adapting to the culture. I'm also speaking the language more fluently.
I arrived during the first week of September. The weather has been very nice. Even though it's October, it's still rather sunny and warm. In fact, I went to the beach and swam in the Mediterranean Sea earlier today.
I am living with a very welcoming host family. I have my own private bedroom, but we eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner together. On Sundays, we eat a big home-cooked paella for lunch. In Spain, lunch is usually the biggest meal of the day. It's also very common for the people to take a midday nap right after a big meal. I am actually just waking up from my nap right now!
On weekdays, I take classes at the local university. There, I met several native Spanish speakers. They have been very kind and patient with me. At first, I struggled to comprehend their Spanish, but now I understand most of our conversations. They have commented that my Spanish has improved a lot since we first met. Now, I am more confident to use the language in other places like stores and restaurants.
I am so glad that I decided to spend the semester here in Spain. We have an extended weekend coming up, so a group of my friends and I are going to travel to France for four days. It's so easy and inexpensive to travel internationally in Europe. I love it!
I look forward to hearing from you soon. Like I said, don't hesitate to stay in touch more often. Perhaps you could even come to visit! What do you think?
Best wishes,
My name is Bob. Each day I drive my kids to school. My daughter goes to a school that’s far from our house. It takes 30 minutes to get there. Then I drive my son to his school. It’s close to my job. My daughter is in the sixth grade and my son is in the second. They are both good students. My daughter usually sings her favorite songs while I drive. My son usually sleeps.
I arrive at the office at 8:30 AM. I say good morning to all my workmates then I get a big cup of hot coffee. I turn on my computer and read my email. Some days I have a lot to read. Soon I need another cup of coffee.
Most individuals don't think about numbers, or numerical representations of quantity, but they play a major part in everyday life. To be sure, numbers determine the time individuals will wake up in the morning, how much money employees earn per hour, what day of the year it is, and much, much more.
Additionally, numbers impact everyday living on a much smaller scale. In the grocery store, for instance, numbers determine products' prices, the amount of a product available for purchase, how much money will need to be paid for products, and a whole lot else.
To understand larger (and more intimidating numbers), interested persons first need to understand basic numbers, or numbers from one to ten, as they comprise each and every advanced number, or a multi-digit number that indicates a larger amount/quantity.
Example: "Ten pineapples sure is a lot, don't you think?"
After ten, eleven (11), twelve (12), thirteen (13), fourteen (14), fifteen (15), sixteen (16), seventeen (17), eighteen (18), nineteen (19), and twenty (20) follow. These numbers are seen less in grocery stores, as most prices are 10 dollars or less; it is however worth knowing these numbers, generally and, in terms of grocery shopping, for when the bill must be paid.
After twenty, numbers such as twenty-five (25), fifty (50), seventy-five (75), and one hundred (100) follow. So long as one knows the core number, or the number situated in the tens or hundreds position that determines the general amount, understanding these more complicated numbers won't be difficult. For example thirty-three (33) is simply "thirty" plus three; sixty-seven is "sixty" plus seven; and sixty-nine is simply "sixty" plus nine.
My name is Clark, and I will tell you about my city.
I live in an apartment. In my city, there is a post office where people mail letters. On Monday, I go to work. I work at the post office. Everyone shops for food at the grocery store. They also eat at the restaurant. The restaurant serves pizza and ice cream.
My friends and I go to the park. We like to play soccer at the park. On Fridays, we go to the cinema to see a movie. Children don't go to school on the weekend. Each day, people go to the hospital when they are sick. The doctors and nurses take care of them. The police keep everyone safe. I am happy to live in my city.
George is at the pet store, looking at what kind of pet he might want to get for his birthday. George asked if he could have a horse, but his parents said no because horses are too big.
First, he sees dogs and cats. Baby dogs are called puppies. Baby cats are called kittens. George likes them because they are easy to take care of and can play a lot, but they will get bigger. George wants a small pet.
Then George sees animals that have to live in a cage. He sees rabbits, guinea pigs, and mice. Mice are what you call more than one mouse. He likes these animals because they are small. Birds live in cages too. George sees a parrot and a canary. He likes them all, but he doesn’t want to clean the cage.
George sees the animals in tanks. The tanks full of water have fish and turtles in them. He thinks about a goldfish but decides he likes the turtles more. There are also tanks with rocks and sand that have snakes, spiders, and scorpions, but George is afraid of them. George likes the turtles best, but they won’t fit in the little fishbowls. Turtles need bigger tanks, so they can swim sometimes and hide sometimes.
George decides he wants to get a turtle for his birthday. He buys a book on how to take care of a turtle and a list of what types of turtles the store has.
Keith recently came back from a trip to Chicago, Illinois. This midwestern metropolis is found along the shore of Lake Michigan. During his visit, Keith spent a lot of time exploring the city to visit important landmarks and monuments.
Keith loves baseball, and he made sure to take a visit to Wrigley Field. Not only did he take a tour of this spectacular stadium, but he also got to watch a Chicago Cubs game. In the stadium, Keith and the other fans cheered for the Cubs. Keith was happy that the Cubs won with a score of 5-4.
Chicago has many historic places to visit. Keith found the Chicago Water Tower impressive as it is one of the few remaining landmarks to have survived the Great Chicago Fire of 1871. Keith also took a walk through Jackson Park, a great outdoor space that hosted the World’s Fair of 1892. The park is great for a leisurely stroll, and it still features some of the original architecture and replicas of monuments that were featured in the World’s Fair.
During the last part of his visit, Keith managed to climb the stairs inside of the Willis Tower, a 110-story skyscraper. Despite the challenge of climbing the many flights of stairs, Keith felt that reaching the top was worth the effort. From the rooftop, Keith received a gorgeous view of the city’s skyline with Lake Michigan in the background.
A Christian holiday signifying the birth of Jesus, Christmas is widely celebrated and enjoyed across the United States and the world. The holiday always falls on 25 December (regardless of the day of the week), and is typically accompanied by decorations, presents, and special meals.
Specifically, the legend behind Christmas (and the one that most children are told) is that Santa Claus, a bearded, hefty, jolly, and red-jacket-wearing old man who lives in the North Pole, spends the year crafting presents with his elves, or small, festive, excited Santa-assistants. All the children who behave throughout the year are admitted to the Good List, and will presumably receive their desired gifts on Christmas, while those who don't behave are placed on the Naughty List, and will presumably (although the matter is determined by parents) receive a lump of coal.
Santa Claus is said to fly around the Christmas sky in a sled powered by his magical reindeer, or cold-resistant, mythically powered, individually named animals, delivering presents to each child's house in the process. Santa is also expected to slide through chimneys to deliver these presents (homes not equipped with chimneys might "leave the front door cracked open"), and children sometimes arrange cookies or other treats on a plate for him to enjoy.
Gifts are placed underneath a Christmas tree, or a pine tree that's decorated with ornaments and/or lights and is symbolic of the holiday. Additionally, smaller gifts may be placed inside a stocking, or a sock-shaped, holiday-specific piece of fabric that's generally hung on the mantle of a fireplace (homes without fireplaces might use the wall). A Christmas tree's ornaments, or hanging, typically spherical decorations, in addition to the mentioned lights, may be accompanied by a star, or a representation of the Star of Jerusalem that the Three Apostles followed while bringing Baby Jesus gifts and honoring him, in the Bible.
While eating at a restaurant is an enjoyable and convenient occasional treat, most individuals and families prepare their meals at home. To make breakfast, lunch, and dinner daily, these persons must have the required foods and ingredients on hand and ready to go; foods and ingredients are typically purchased from a grocery store, or an establishment that distributes foods, drinks, household products, and other items that're used by the typical consumer.
Produce, or the term used to describe fresh fruits and vegetables, is commonly purchased by grocery store shoppers. In terms of fruit, most grocery stores offer bananas, apples, oranges, blackberries, raspberries, grapes, pineapples, cantaloupes, watermelons, and more; other grocery stores with larger produce selections might offer the listed fruits in addition to less common fruits, including mangoes, honeydews, starfruits, coconuts, and more.
Depending on the grocery store, customers can purchase fruits in a few different ways. Some stores will charge a set amount per pound of fruit, and will weigh customers' fruit purchases and bill them accordingly; other stores will charge customers for each piece of fruit they buy, or for bundles of fruit (a bag of bananas, a bag of apples, etc.); other stores yet will simply charge by the container.
Vegetables, including lettuce, corn, tomatoes, onions, celery, cucumbers, mushrooms, and more are also sold at many grocery stores, and are purchased similarly to the way that fruits are. Grocery stores typically stock more vegetables than fruit at any given time, as vegetables remain fresh longer than fruits do, generally speaking.
It'd take quite a while to list everything else that today's massive grocery stores sell, but most customers take the opportunity to shop for staples, or foods that play a prominent role in the average diet, at the establishments. Staples include pasta, rice, flour, sugar, milk, meat, and eggs, and bread. All the listed staples are available in prepackaged containers, but can be purchased "fresh" in some grocery stores, wherein employees will measure and weigh fresh products and then provide them to customers.
